# Crop-Recommendation-system
India is an agricultural country as which is well known for agriculture in the world. 
Agriculture is major field in the world and it is also known as backbone of India. Most of the population and economy in India involved in agriculture.
Farmers aware of traditional farming and unaware of climatic conditions influence the crop production and leads to great loss. These risks can be reduced by applying machine learning model. 
Thus, our solution to solve the problem is building recommender system based on climatic conditions like temperature, N, P, K, Ph, rainfall and humidity to decide the right crop.
Our main aim is to predict multiple crops. In this paper, using machine learning approach like K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN), SVM, Random Forest, Decision Tree to predict which crop is best.


Agriculture is a foremost field within the world, and it’s the backbone in the Republic of India. Agriculture has been in poor condition. India is an agricultural country with the highest land area of more than 18,91,761(1.9 million) square-kilometers under cultivation.
Most of the Indian population is involved in agriculture and the Indian economy is largely dependent on agriculture. India possesses a power potential to be a superpower in the field of agriculture. Agriculture promotes economic growth and provides a way for rural development. The usage of technology-enhanced practices in agriculture is found less in India. Due to such old practices, the yield of the crop is not as estimated that made the farmers, lose hope in the agriculture process. Therefore, many farmers have neglected agriculture and started other occupations. In some cases, suicidal attempts by the farmers have also increased. 
Harvest creation is reliant upon topographical variables as soil synthetic, temperature, stickiness and so forth. These factors plays a major role in increasing the crop production. Farmers are unaware from these factors and select the crop for cultivation based on their experience of growing particular crop again and again. Farmer’s crop selection accuracy is low not cost effective. It is important to practice modern methods of farming by using technology instead of practicing traditional farming method. To solve this problem, we offer a framework that will recommend crops dependent on the temperature of the general climate. Farmers can expand their yield by developing the harvest suggested by the framework.
In this study, a Machine Learning approach is utilized to recommend the best crop, and Python is used as the programming language because it is generally accepted for experimentation in the Machine Learning field. Machine Learning is an important tool for data analysis that uses learning algorithms to iteratively learn from available data. Machine Learning is an area of artificial intelligence that tries to give computer methods for accumulating, changing, and updating the knowledge of intelligence systems.
Meteorological factors play a vital role in Crop Production. Nearly 50 % of yield is attributed to the influence of climatic/Meteorological factors. The following are the major atmospheric weather variables which influences the crop production.
